Today is August 15th 2019 and I'm here in the beautiful Nantgull Church having a chat
with Mr Michael Morgan originally from these parts but now living in Surrey. Mike welcome
to the church and thanks for agreeing to have a little bit of a chat. Mike tell me where
are you from originally? I know it's these parts somewhere. A farm called Lower Ochekeven,
from Typhoon. Right and what sort of farm was that? Part arable, part hill I suppose you might
call it. So you had the best of both worlds really? Yes. Can you remember anything in particular
about the people who lived in that area about any of the characters who you know passed by?
I remember some old gentleman that lived at the Upper Ochekeven, I made because it was lower,
middle and upper so he may have been at Middle Ochekeven. We were certainly at Lower Ochekeven
and he used to be, you could set your club by him, he'd be walking coming into town on a Wednesday
on his pony at one o'clock he'd pass by the house. So you could virtually set your watch by him.
Oh yes. A gentleman of regular habits. Yes, very elderly gentleman, often wondered who he was and
what his family was. Yes it would be interesting to find out. And what was life on the farm like?
Were you busy? Were you kept busy all the time? It was very basic, there was no electricity,
coal fired, heating, part of the chimney. Sort of things we take for granted today then weren't
really around. Yes. And what about schooling then Mike, primary school, secondary school,
do you have any memories fond or otherwise? I come to school and then on up to
Raleigh School and then up to Binturion School, secondary modern. And can you remember your teachers in the primary school?
No I can't, I've lost track of them in my mind. Well obviously one... In fact until I get to Binturion,
secondary modern, I can't remember much of it. I'm afraid it was a bit of a dance. Oh go on, I'm sure you made up for it in other ways.
And well it turns out that when you went to Binturion, my father was one of your teachers
and I believe he taught you woodwork Mike, so have you still got any memories of anything you made or anything you did?
I can remember him chasing me around the woodwork room with a chair leg. Oh dear, had you fashioned the chair leg?
And oh several things I've got at home still, there's a little news today that I learnt under your father's tutelage.
Well that's wonderful, so something good came out of all that. Yes, I enjoyed my time there.
Yes, what about social life, friends, things to do in the evening? There was the YMCA in town
and of course once one got old enough you crept round the back of the pub for a pint.
Yes, I think we all did a little bit of that. Now you found... It was then known as the butcher's arms.
The Kondyther arms, no, no, it's called the horseshoe now isn't it?
Round the back road there. Yes, yes I think I know the one you mean.
Your ancestors came from Dolvolle which of course is one of the farms under the water now.
Can you remember anything about those people and where they came from, their names etc.?
I believe they came to live there originally from Camastwith area.
I know that there's a churchyard near Camastwith that's got a heck of a lot of Morgans' names on the stones.
What I'd tip it I learnt from when I was a lad confirms itself that they did all come from Camastwith originally
but I don't know any of their history or anything.
So and there was a connection with the Lewis Lloyds with the land that they were on over there I believe.
So they came when they... one of the family of the Lewis Lloyds ended up living in Red at the Nile Hall
and from that some of the family came down to live here at Dolvolle.
To live and farm at Dolvolle, yes.
Your cousin of course is Mary, Mary Morgan as she was now, Mary Connolly.
I think you're telling me about her, was it her grandmother who came from somewhere in England to be working in service?
Yes, as I understand it when the family lived at Dolvolle
would have been my great uncle, I could even be further back than that perhaps.
One of them started to go out and was courting a girl who lived at the big house down the road at Nankwip.
And eventually they got married and that's how I came to be.
Yes, sort of one of your very important ancestors.
So I'm part English through that as well.
Part English as well.
Well you've certainly got connections with English people and with the Welsh aristocracy I suppose.
We could refer to the Lewis Lloyds couldn't we?
I think they were just tenant farmers, you know, as they were over there when they came here too.
I see, they seemed to own vast tracts of land.
They did, yes.
That's fine and then you presumably moved away to work, did you?
I joined the army.
I joined the army and what can I add, I went to Aldershot, page 90.
I spent seven months training to be a paratrooper.
And was immediately posted overseas to the campaign that was going on at the time in Borneo
where there was a confrontation between Indonesia and British territory.
I spent nine months there, came back and was involved in perhaps three or four more
in places around the world, the Middle East.
Right, so you've really had quite a chequered career haven't you?
And you say you try and come back about every couple of years.
Is that right?
No, you come back about twice a year?
I like to come home two or three times a year.
Two or three times a year, oh right, even better, yes.
Where you've tried to follow up some of your family I believe.
Well in recent years I've become more interested, I suppose as one does when you get older.
Yes, well that's, you know, it's something I think people are doing now, isn't it?
You know, we're really trying to follow up our family trees.
And have you had any success in finding them and following them up?
I know you said something about looking in graves.
Yes, I've been trying to look for any of the family that might have died up the valley.
That might have been buried up the chapel that is now under water.
And I can't seem to find any trace of the graves or anything like that,
whether they've been reinterred or not.
Yes, that would be interesting to find out.
Right, well look, thank you very, very much for your time, Mike.
It's been great talking to you and it's been great talking to somebody who can trace their ancestry back to,
well, a spot just up from where we're sitting at the moment in this lovely Nantleville church.
So thank you very much for your contribution.